docs/src/content/docs/start-here/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Getting started
description: Welcome to the BioTron Docs
sidebar:
  order: 1
---
Welcome to the Exo Software Docs! Here you will find all codebase-related documentation.

## About the team
UW Exo is a student design team at the University of Waterloo participating in the Applied Collegiate Exoskeleton Competition (ACE) - a competition held every year and involving a dozen universities from across the world. 
Teams design a powered exoskeleton, primarily focused on lower-body mobility.
Teams develop exoskeleton with unique missions and payload requirements and are evaluated through a series of launch-readiness tests, including design review, safety test, judge piloting test, and mobility challenges. 

- Find more about the ACE competition [here](https://starx.engin.umich.edu/ace-competition/about-ace-2025).
- The 2026 competition requirement is [here](https://www.acecompetition.ca/rulebook).

## What software does
Software is a subteam consisting of three major code projects: control app, firmware, and motion simulation.

The control app provides the primary interface between the operator and the exoskeleton. 
It includes frontends that allow operators to monitor system status and command high-level exoskeleton states such as idle, walking, calibration, and emergency stop. 
The app also manages configuration and calibration data, including motor PID constants, joint limits, and safety thresholds to ensure consistent behavior across hardware iterations. 
The control app is primarily built with Python for backend and React for the frontend.

The firmware runs on embedded controllers and is responsible for controlling the exoskeleton’s actuators. 
It coordinates torque, position, and velocity control while continuously reading sensor data such as joint encoders, force/torque sensors, and IMU measurements. 
The firmware handles communication with the control app and the motion simulation, and interfaces directly with motor drivers and other electrical subsystems. 

The motion simulation tests high-level control logic for the exoskeleton using sensor values from real hardwares or simulated sources such as keyboard inputs.
It is where the control algorithms including PID control and gait prediction are developed and evaluated before deployment to the physical system, and it is built using ROS2.

## Suggested guides
Don’t know where to go first? Try one of the following links!
- initial setup
- building firmware
- building control app
- building simulation
- style guide
- how to make pull request

Commit message:

docs add initial setup page

docs/src/content/docs/start-here/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Getting started
description: Welcome to the BioTron Docs
sidebar:
  order: 1
---
Welcome to the Exo Software Docs! Here you will find all codebase-related documentation.

:::caution[Caution]
These docs are a work in progress. Not everything may be documented yet. 
If you need something and can’t find it, please mention it on our Discord server so we can add it!
:::

## About the team
UW Exo is a student design team at the University of Waterloo participating in the Applied Collegiate Exoskeleton Competition (ACE) - a competition held every year and involving a dozen universities from across the world. 
Teams design a powered exoskeleton, primarily focused on lower-body mobility.
Teams develop exoskeleton with unique missions and payload requirements and are evaluated through a series of launch-readiness tests, including design review, safety test, judge piloting test, and mobility challenges. 

- Find more about the ACE competition [here](https://starx.engin.umich.edu/ace-competition/about-ace-2025).
- The 2026 competition requirement is [here](https://www.acecompetition.ca/rulebook).

## What software does
Software is a subteam consisting of three major code projects: control app, firmware, and motion simulation.

The control app provides the primary interface between the operator and the exoskeleton. 
It includes frontends that allow operators to monitor system status and command high-level exoskeleton states such as idle, walking, calibration, and emergency stop. 
The app also manages configuration and calibration data, including motor PID constants, joint limits, and safety thresholds to ensure consistent behavior across hardware iterations. 
The control app is primarily built with Python for backend and React for the frontend.

The firmware runs on embedded controllers and is responsible for controlling the exoskeleton’s actuators. 
It coordinates torque, position, and velocity control while continuously reading sensor data such as joint encoders, force/torque sensors, and IMU measurements. 
The firmware handles communication with the control app and the motion simulation, and interfaces directly with motor drivers and other electrical subsystems. 

The motion simulation tests high-level control logic for the exoskeleton using sensor values from real hardwares or simulated sources such as keyboard inputs.
It is where the control algorithms including PID control and gait prediction are developed and evaluated before deployment to the physical system, and it is built using ROS2.

## Suggested guides
Don’t know where to go first? Try one of the following links!
- initial setup
- building firmware
- building control app
- building simulation
- style guide
- how to make pull request
